hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about two
major parameter passing methods call by value and call by reference
First let us discuss about call by value method
So consider the simple C programme we have the main
function and a user defined function set and as we
know programme execution begins from the main function
So in main, first we have an integer variable declaration
for a. Suppose
It is created at address 1024 and assigning the value
10 to it
Next we have a prinnt statement which prints before calling
function a equal to and prints the value of a
which is 10
Next we're calling function set by passing a. So control
goes to function definition and there we have the parameter
int a. So another local integer variable a is created
and the value we passed which is 10 will be
stored in it and suppose it is created at address
Now this is very important that both these variables
are entirely different
They have the same name but they are different. This
new 'a' created is having scope within function set and
the 'a' at address 1024 has scope within main function
Now we set 'a' equal to zero
So the 'a' at address 2024 will be accessed and
set to 0 and it has no effect on variable 'a'
of the main function
Now we print in set function 'a' equal to and prints the
value of 'a' which is zero
Now we return to main function and we have a
print statement which prints after calling function a equal to and
prints the value of 'a' which is 10 again because
the modification made has no effect on this 'a'.
So this is call by value parameter passing method.
If we use call by value then any change made
in the called function will not reflect in the calling
function
Now let us discuss about call by reference
parameter passing method. Again let us explained the method using
a programme
So here also we have the main function and
user defined function set. So execution begins from main and first
statement is declaring a and initialising it to 10
Suppose it was created at address 1024
Now we print the value of a before calling the
function
So 10 will be printed
Now we're calling the Function set by passing the address of a
that is 1024 will be passed which is a
reference to the actual location of a.
Now control goes to function set and there we have
the parameter int *a
That is an integer pointer
So a local  integer pointer is created at address 2024
will have the value 1024
Now we have *a equal to zero
That is value at 'a' that is value at 1024 is
set to zero
So we go to this address 1024 and set the
value to zero
Now we print *a or the value of a
in function set which is zero
Now we return to main function and print the value
of 'a' there. Again we will get zero there because
the function set had the address of this 'a' and
it directly came here and made the modification
So if we pass the parameter by reference any change
made in the called function will be reflected in the
calling function also
Now let us take an interesting example to differentiate these
two methods
So we have two functions
Function1 and function2
And we have a juice bottle in function1.
Now in call by value
We only pass a copy of this bottle to function 2
So any change made to this copy in function2 will
not reflect in Bottle in function1. But in call
by reference we are passing a reference and giving access
to the original bottle
So any change made to the bottle will be reflected
in function1 also
So that's all and thank you for watching this video